What is human cognition? How does it relate to information?
Cognitive Processes
Cognition originates from the Latin word cognitio, it means "get to know". More explicitly, cognition has three steps. First, we perceive some information. After that, our brains will process the perceived information. Finally, we can obtain understanding or even knowledge.?
There are many kinds of cognitive processes. For example, memory is one of them. Our cognitive system can encode information and store them in memory, and when stimuli appear we can retrieve and decode the information in our brain. Learning and communication are also cognitive processes. However, these processes are not simply independent. When we communicate with each other, we need to use language as a tool. And language is a result of learning. How do we know the meanings of specific words? They are memorized in our minds previously. Therefore, learning, memory and communication are not independent cognitive processes.

Image source: Pinterest
Levels and Dimensions of Cognition
In the lecture, we learned that human cognition has three vertical levels and multiple dimensions. Considering the extent of getting to know, the three levels are cognition, metacognition and epistemic cognition. Cognitive processes can be carried out in different conditions which are the horizontal dimensions. And they can intertwine with each other. Collectively, they are called human-information interactions.?
What impressed me most is epistemic cognition, because it is related?to philosophy and psychology, both of which are difficult to me but deserve to be explored. ?Social?epistemic cognition (SEC) can lead to collaborative knowledge constructions and information artifacts. For instance,?massive open online courses (MOOCs) are one example of information artifacts. MOOCs allow students to access more open online materials. And it introduced a new model of learning.
??
By working collaboratively, we can share useful information and knowledge to more people. Not only can we increase the level of cognition, but also enhance the quality of the whole society.
?
?

