How do blind people navigate using information?
When you are reading this blog, you are perceiving information from your computer screens. Using your eyes. When you go to?someplace, you are using your eyes to find directions. But have you tried to walk around with your eyes closed? How does it feel like? As for me, it's like I am embedded in a black ocean. I can hear sounds from all directions, but suddenly, I lose my may.
We can see some blind people use white cane or guide dog to navigate around. Actually, they are also interacting with both physical information and semantic information. Just like us.
 
Physical information is intrinsic properties of the environment, which can be used by entities to support their behaviors and physical actions. It includes affordances of structures. And our bodies have abilities which are complementary to particular affordances. For example, when we see the staircases, we know immediately how to raise our legs and where to put down, and won't fall down. However, there is a premise: we can see. For blind people, they cannot use eyes to sense the surroundings. Instead, they are using a physical stick to get the physical information, such as distance and height difference. Therefore, they also need physical information to navigate. But instead of seeing, they are using haptic sensing.
How about traffic lights? We know since our childhood that "by red we stop, by green we go". It serves as a semantic sign. However, using different colors to signify information cannot help blind people. Therefore, in some cities, in order to give blind people more convenience, two different sounds are used to represent "stop" and "go". These sounds with different frequencies also serve as semantic sign in this context. So blind people use semantic information to navigate as well. In this case. they are using hearing sensing.
By understanding how people perceive information and the functions of different kinds of information, we can develop devices or design some new idea to help others, especially those who need our helps.
?

