What is UX?We have come across the word ‘UX’ in our class so many times and also given the clear definition of the question ‘what is UX’, but after the lecture of week 9, which talks about digital information and the interaction between digital and semantic information, together with knowledge of interaction between physical and semantic information, it made me have a deeper understanding on the question ‘what is UX’.In the week 9’s lecture, we know that the digital information is of many kinds: the location in GPS, data in electronic devices et. In summary, the information which is quantitative (like numbers, data saved in devices in the format of 0s and 1s) is digital information.And the interaction between digital and semantic information is also common in our daily life. For example, you click the sign of browser, then the browser will open with retrieving the homepage content from the server. From this process, the semantic information is shown first, by the action of click, the semantic information (sign) will call the server for corresponding digital information, after data is sent to the browser, it will decode to semantic information like words and pictures.Additionally, what cannot be missing is that it is under human’s control, so the whole process should add physical information, people see the sign from the screen and click the sign in the first and see information from the website in the last. And the ultimate goal of whole process is also for human to get information they want. From this example, I suddenly realized that the physical information represents human, the digital information is the world of 0s and 1s, it is hard for human to read digital information directly, but semantic information act as a bridge to connect these two parts. So the UX is to study the three kinds of information, and make improvements to make it easier and simpler for human to interact with the digital world.  Source: http://www.jbhdq.com/uploadfile/2017/0912/20170912111455491.jpghttp://reso2.yiihuu.com/769025-z.jpg