What’re we thinking about when we’re thinking about college life
— from the prospective of information and context
Majoring in Mathematics & Information Engineering, I have to start my first blog with a formula…

To tell the truth, It is so unintuitive to most of the people encountering it at first glance. Why in the world could information be calculated in quantity? That is exactly the marvellous work that Claude Shannon has brought to us, who is also known as “the father of information theory”. The left hand side, entropy, is an estimation of the amount of uncertainty. Before we receive any information, we’re uncertain about some facts while after we get informed, we’re more confident about some facts. As a result, our uncertainty towards some facts decreases. That is the magic of information!

Since all the information could be calculated in bits, we must live in a computer simulated world. “The Matrix” is true! Unfortunately it’s not. You still cannot be Neo even if you an A in information theory. Information always hides among Context but never does it construct the material world. Circumstances, agent, subject and understandings are the four element of context. According to Paul Dourish, the context, is not the environment, not the setting, not the background, instead, it arises from and is sustained by the activity itself. When the entity (agent) is trying to understand the relationships among those elements, the information flows.

Back to our own college life, the whole theory works perfectly as well. I’m not talking about skipping the classes(走堂) or dem-beat, but the whole picture of college life. Attending college itself is the whole context. We ourselves are undoubtedly the agents of the context. There’re countless subjects(events, ideas, knowledges) in the circumstances. Playing the role as agents, our process of trying to understand the subjects is somehow, the meaning of attending college. In this process, we keep receiving information and in the meantime reduce the uncertainty of life. That’s also why college life is not all about GPA and career success. Working diligently in a class reduces the uncertainty while having a hearty night talk with friends also reduces the uncertainty. Winners are not always those get admitted to top-10 graduate school in the U.S or those get an offer from i-Bank. In this context, one wins as long as he/she gets the information he/she is looking for.