Knowing about knowing — Metacognition


There are three levels of human cognitive process, which are 1. Cognition (first level) 2. Metacognition (second level) and 3. Epistemic cognition (third level).

In class, we had a funny bus question, where we’re given some knowledge about the passengers while being asked a totally irrelevant question about how old is the bus captain. The question itself seems making no sense at all. Yet the process of how we handle it is really interesting.

When we read the question, we’re engaged in cognition since we’re perceiving (reading) information from outside. Then comes the “amazing” phenomenon, that is, we’re able to process  and manage the information we received (Metacognition). Finally, we evaluate the realistic situation and draw a conclusion that the problem cannot be solved (Epistemic Cognition).

What fascinates me most the process of Metacognition, which is defined as "cognition about cognition", "thinking about thinking", "knowing about knowing", becoming "aware of one's awareness" and higher-order thinking skills (from Wikipedia). In metaphor, it’s like drawing “lines” among the information that we perceived. These lines then build up an palace upon the cognition, where we could experience, observe, check and manage our cognition.

It does remind me of our “study plan” or “review plan” in final exam period. Again and again, before each final exam period, I’ll make myself a super study plan where I could make up all the knowledges I left behind in the whole term in just few days. Nevertheless, again and again, when it comes to practice, I give up in the middle of my “super” study plan. I’m pretty sure that a lot of students may share the same experience with me. In the case, metacognition does play a notable role. First of all, I left some confusing problems behind in the lecture because I’m “confident” that I would review it later or at least before the final exam. That’s my "awareness of awareness”. Then the super plan starts, to evaluate how much knowledges I left behind, it’s a process of “knowing about knowing”. In the middle of my reviewing, I get distracted and watch YouTube for whole night, where I should have studied in the original plan. Now this means I wrongly monitor my ability of focusing on study.

To generalise it more, those completing tasks most effectively and perfectly are not always the most hardworking people. Some may say they’re just smarter, higher IQ etc. But after learning Human Cognition Process, I would rather believe they’re just having a better metacognition ability. Those so called “smart” people might not be diligent enough and usually start their work right before the deadline. Yet they’re good at 1. metacognitive planning, so that they could make a precise calculation of how much time they need to finish the work appropriately, 2. metacognitive monitoring, so that they could control the process of their work and do self-regulation, 3. metacognitive evaluating, so that they’re able to appraise their own work and have a clear cognition of how good/bad his current performance.

It seems we don’t need to read fast, memorise fast to be a “smart” person. Upgrading the metacognitive skills could be the magic.