Good definition about information. Sometimes we need information to improve human life.
For the definition of information, i agree that information need a sender and receiver. As your example tutor use email as the transmitter to release the location to student. It is a good example on information theory. I also agree that information is one of the key component of engineering student study. Through the study, we learn a lot on the signal processing, using different transform we can compress the data ,transmit the data etc.But I would like to know more how information is the essential part in the career especially to a engineering graduate?
Surely we need to learn and deal with information, no matter in the real world or the internet. It is now the e generation and we can obtain or give out any information easily, but upon this convenience side, we can see that there are so many false information in the internet. That’s why we can’t believe everything we see. Even when a piece of information is false, it can be spread all over the world with the help of the internet.

Just modifying an example you mentioned, the teacher makes a typo in the email, instead of “room 402”, “room 502” was typed. Then the whole class might be going to miss the lesson because they are all directed to a wrong venue due to a single little typo. So sometimes information can actually lead to negative situation, but not always beneficial.
Love your e-mail example. It uses real experience to illustrate how information can reduce uncertainty. Apart from accurate information, I think cognition is also important when we perceive information. For example, the e-mail may say the location is on T.Y Hall. However, some people can get misperception when they first read the e-mail because they think “Ah, Y.C Hall, I know where to go.” Consequently, they go to the wrong place. So, in my opinion, both information and cognition are essential for us to learn.
Nice article! It is interesting to see that you use daily life example to explain what information is, such as the email sent by the tutor. You have written that “The information is some contents that is released by the source and be transmitted by transmitter, then the receiver will obtain them and after some process (like decoding)”. I think information is not necessarily released by source. It can be something factual or phenomenon, such as data and knowledge.

Apart from finding the useful information, more importantly, as an engineer, I think we should learn how to make use of the information too, what I mean is identifying the nature of information and whether it is true or not.
I think your post is clear and structural. The comparative examples are easy to understand and provide us with the basic concept of two types of information adaptation. As for the suggestion, I think you can provide some figures to help you to illustrate. Also, some thoughts of your own regarding the assimilation and accommodation could also be provided after the examples. You may relate assimilation and accommodation with some human behaviour in the social media and discuss their benefits or harm.
Your blog post has clearly shown how information is closely related to our body. And it is amazing to see that the process of brain processing is just like a computer which processes all the command in the code and gives out the output. However, the biggest difference between human cognition model and a computer is that human has perception while the computer doesn’t. It is an interesting post to read 
this is a very interesting topic indeed. recently I am working on my final year project about image captioning, to generate sentences that describe the image. For an image that contains a man, a platform, and a track, if we only doing attributes recognition, we are only labeling the objects we can literally see, and the output would be “a man standing on a platform, next to a track”, without context, we hardly day the computer really know what’s going on in the photo. But with much more parameters, like introducing the spacial relation learning model, the machine may now tell that “A man is standing on the platform, waiting for the train”, notice that the train is never on the photo, there are only a man, a platform, and a track, only the context gives the actual meaning, same as many many different cases in real-world problem. Actually, interesting enough, it can also refer to a great philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein which believes languages defines our think in his early age, but then he realizes context affects the meaning of sign very much where he later proposed that we should observe for one’s behavior to determine one’s thinking or values in mind.
I totally agree with you. The meaning of an object is depended on the context of that object. Say for example, different people will get different meaning from a “0”. An English teacher may think it is letter O, a Maths teacher may think it is zero, a housekeeping teacher may think it is an egg. Therefore, to determine what is the meaning of that object. we must first figure out what is the context.
The symbol is a good way to represent something when we all learned the context behind the symbol.

Moreover, the same symbol under different situations has different meanings as you have mentioned the red octagon. That’s why there are different driving tests in different countries. The driver must memorize the traffic signs, road signs in order to pass the test. Otherwise, they may violate the rules and cause an accident easily.

Nonetheless, the symbol is still important. We cannot always put words as a sign, a symbol can represent something in a simple way.
In some conditions, people can easily get the context of the symbol. For instance, the toilet sign with a boy and girl, people always can easily get the meaning behind.

To sum up, we need to learn the meaning behind the symbol in different environment sometime, the symbol is important. ?? Thanks for your sharing.
Yes, we need our cognition to help us identify the meaning of the sign. But we can also find that usually the signs won’t have alternate meaning in different aspects. For example, ‘x’ can mean false in many aspects as it means a cross, and it can also means multiply in mathematics, but also cross product in maths too. However, cross product and multiply is not very different in meaning since cross product is a kind of multiply tools in vector calculation while multiply can also work in scalar. It shows that if we can’t what situation we are, we may fall into a mess, but it won’t take us to the opposite direction..
I agree that the usage of signs requires our cognition model to learn from adaption in different environments. A sign may not have a universal meaning throughout the world, it can have various interpretation in different countries due to their unique culture. Thus, we cannot interpret a sign in our own perception in all environments. Otherwise, we will have misinterpretation and it may have severe impacts.

For example, if we across the road whenever green traffic light is on, we may get injuries in other countries. In reality, our cognition schemas can adapt our perception by observing the environment, i.e. whether cars are crossing the road. We can modify the meaning of signs based on life experience.
I agree with you that we should know the true meaning behind different symbols in different situation/cultures. Sometimes if we get the wrong meaning of the symbol, it would easily cause misunderstanding between people and raise unnecessary disputes.
However, it is important for us to know some meaning of universal symbols. In case we don’t know how to communicate to the others in foreign countries, we could still use some symbols or physical information(movement) to try to explain something to the others.
To conclude, symbols sometimes may have different meanings to different people. However, I don;t think it is a serious issue that we need to solve as I believe other people would understand the cultural differences.