It¡¯s very true that knowing human comprehension of information is a really important for engineers to develop information. In many ways the practice of information technology is quite similar to how our nerve system works, just like what you said about the short term and long term memory of our brain. Our brain is also encoding and decoding information for us constantly.
Indeed we can improve or further develop the current information technology through referencing our biological system, and also to create much humanized design to benefit our society.
By the way, i love how your post includes a video. This is quite helpful for me as a reader to process the information provided in you blog post. In this case, the animation can provide a easier way to understand abstract concept.
It is interesting to see you using spider web to describe the relationship of information and human.
You also mentioned that information can easily rise our emotion. In this sense, I think information could be dangerous for human too. It is always good that if information make us happy and become more positive. However, there are also information which could make us sad or depressed. If the reader is already very sad and feels hopeless, it may lead to horrible things such as suicide. Therefore, all of us should also help to make our network society a more positive place for everyone.

When we develop application for disabled people, we must consider there needs and try to use different form of information to help them perceive information with other ways. Just like for blind people, it is good to know that we are using different sounds to help them distinguish the timing of when they should cross the road.
Your post is useful and I understand more on how we are helping disable people navigate using information.

It¡¯s funny how we thought every senses is independent when we were young, but in fact they intertwined together to form pictures in our head, even if we lose one or more than one sensation. It¡¯s more interesting when people can actually improve others sense when they lose one. For example blind people might have lose their sight, but their hearing can become much more sensitive than usual because their hearing can somehow make up some of the information that are expected to get from our sight, such as traffic light that you have mentioned. And there are also cases that a blind boy could actually form something like Radar map in his head because his brain had tried change to compromised with his lost of sight. Kinds of information and ways of receiving information might be more then we ever discovered.
Thanks for your post and I think it is easy to understand. I agree with you that different people are using different methods to gathering information. Besides, even healthy people may have different usage habits to use a product or a facility. That is why the study of user experience is of vital importance while designing a product. A product that is easy to use can not only help the disables, but also make everyone using it a better life.
I really like your idea to apply what we¡¯ve learnt about information to help those in need. It¡¯s a genius approach to create the ¡°traffic light¡± with sounds in different frequency. Actually we¡¯re hearing these ¡°traffic lights¡± everyday in Hong Kong. As we have learnt the three levels of information: digital, semantic and physical, the core idea is how can we convert the information so that those in need can perceive. For instance, we can convert graphical information into audible information to help blind people. We can convert audible information into graphical information to help deaf people. At this stage, it might cost a lot to make these translations cover every aspects of our lives. Yet with the development of AI, it¡¯s assumable that more and more intelligent devices would be deployed to help them out.
Actually, how about blind people lost their hearing. It is impossible tough for them to cross the road relying on sound. So you may not realize but there¡¯s a yellow box stick on the column of the traffic light.And under the yellow box there is a vibration button which change the frequency according to red or green sign. So that even blind people that suffer from hearing lost can also use their touch to know when to cross the road. Good article though.
Indeed, to fortify the intrinsic properties of object can allows the object more information or allows more people the understand the same information, just like your idea about the traffic light providing different sounds. And I have another funny example. PlayStation has attracted many of the children, children are willing to spend all their leisure time on it rather than pick up a book and study. Their parents are unhappy for it because they think their son are addicted on the PlayStation and they health and study will be affected, that is the semantic information of a PlayStation to parents. However, when the develop has recognized this, they started developing the game machine and game which can let the players do exercise and understand useful knowledge, just like Wii and some Q&A games. Since then, the parents are not so averse to their sons to play games machine on their leisure time as it provides a new semantic information to them, which their son are doing exercise and learning while they are playing.
This article brings a lot of thinking to me. Normally, I always complain when I using different digital device for slow response or for poor revolution. However, I did not realize that blind can not get physical information from the screen, but I wonder nowadays with advanced technology, such as Siri can provide audio output may surely give a helping hand to the blind people. As an engineer student, I think our product should also focus on the minority in order to allow the product be more user friendly.
